Great — now that you have uploaded the complete ZDWA1SEG.txt job orchestration (the entire flow from extract → score → HDFS → external table → cleanup → Teradata → email notifications), I can prepare the FINAL PERFECT one-page summary your manager expects.



This version includes:

High-level business explanation

Technical architecture

How the job flow orchestrates all steps

No code details

Extremely clean executive language



This is the best possible version you can present.

⭐ 
FINAL ONE-PAGE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY – ESPX ML Scoring & Batch Orchestration (Perfect Version)


1. What the ESPX Platform Does


The ESPX platform is Verizon’s enterprise system for running more than 185+ predictive machine-learning models every month across Wireless, Business, and FiOS segments.

These models support critical business needs such as:

Churn prediction

Upsell / Cross-sell

Customer lifetime value (LTV)

Usage and behavioral prediction

Price sensitivity

Risk and segmentation



The system ensures fast, reliable, and fully automated delivery of model scores to downstream business teams.

2. High-Level ML Architecture


The ML scoring pipeline is built using a combination of H2O AutoML, Java MOJO scorers, Spark, Hive external tables, and Teradata.



A. Model Development (H2O AutoML)
Data scientists train models using H2O AutoML.

Models are exported as MOJO artifacts (zip files) for production scoring.

These artifacts are lightweight, deterministic, and environment-independent.



B. Model Scoring (Java MOJO Engines)


Each model has its own Java program that:

Loads the MOJO artifact

Reads input pipe-delimited files

Converts date fields, handles nulls, and performs basic cleansing

Runs predictions using H2O’s EasyPredictModelWrapper

Writes the result to a score output file



Java scoring is chosen because it is:

Fast and scalable

Consistent across all models

Independent of Spark/Python model loading



C. External Table Creation (Spark + Python)


After Java scoring:

A Python Spark job creates standardized Hive external tables pointing to the score output.

These tables ensure consistent schemas for all 185+ models.



D. Data Publishing (Teradata BTEQ)
BTEQ scripts load predictions from Hive to Teradata.

Creates staging and final analytic tables.

Performs automatic validations and quality checks.

3. Enterprise Batch Orchestration (ZDWA1SEG Flow)


The uploaded ZDWA1SEG.txt file reveals the full production automation, showing a world-class ETL + ML workflow coordinated through Linux jobs and Spark.



Each model run follows a structured sequence:



Step 1 — Extract & Prepare Input


Linux jobs generate model-specific input files using Spark and shell scripts.



Step 2 — Predict Using MOJO


A Java batch job executes the scoring:

java scorer.jar --mojo model.zip --input input.txt --output scored_output.txt
Step 3 — Move Score Files to HDFS
The scored output file is copied to HDFS.

Directories are created per model and per month.



Step 4 — Create Hive External Table


A Spark-submit job executes:

*_score_ext_tbl.py
to map the scored output into a Hive external table.



Step 5 — Cleanup Staging Tables


BTEQ scripts drop/create required staging tables.



Step 6 — Load Score into Teradata


Another BTEQ job loads the external Hive table into:

TD staging table

TD final table



Step 7 — Completion Notification


Automatic email alerts notify:

Job completion

Report date

Model ID



This ensures zero manual intervention and complete traceability across all steps.

4. Why This System Is Highly Effective


The ESPX platform works exceptionally well because it is:

Modular (every model follows the same pipeline)

Scalable (185+ models with the same architecture)

Automated (end-to-end jobs handled by Linux + Spark + BTEQ)

Fast (Java MOJO scoring is extremely efficient)

Reliable (deterministic output & consistent schema)

Business-aligned (supports core revenue-driving operations)

⭐ 
One-Sentence Summary for Senior Leadership


“The ESPX platform is Verizon’s fully automated, enterprise-scale ML scoring system that orchestrates 185+ models using H2O MOJO engines, Spark-driven external tables, and Teradata pipelines to generate reliable customer insights every cycle.”

If you want, I can also prepare:



✅ A clean 1-slide diagram

✅ A 5-slide manager presentation

✅ A 10-line executive email

✅ A spoken version for meetings



Just tell me what format you need next.
